[ORCHESTRAL SOUND]
>> As the saying goes,
it's nothing personal.
It's business.
But for author Patricia
Aburdene the worlds
of business and
money can and should
be deeply connected to
who we are as individuals.
I spoke with her earlier about
her new book Conscious Money
on how one can integrate
personal values
with personal finance.
Newly released book
Conscious Money.
Before the title, you
say, living, creating,
and investing with your
values for a sustainable
new prosperity.
What is conscious money?
>> Conscious money may sound
like a big undertaking,
but it's really very simple.
It is comprised of
three simple steps.
Start within.
Conscious money isn't about your
checking account or your stock
portfolio or your expenses.
It's about you.
Know yourself.
Second part is money
is part of life.
And we all have relationships
with organizations
that fulfill our roles as
an earner, as a spender,
as an investor.
Choose those
relationships wisely.
And I show you how
to do it in the book.
The third part is to
remember this information
and this wisdom as you go about
your roles, your economic roles
as a consumer, as an investor,
and as an earner of money.
Let's make it simple.
Consciousness is awareness.
Conscious money is about making
financial choices with greater
awareness, with
financial choices that
are informed by our
values, while we also
observe the basic rules
of good financial sense.
The way to be successful
today, whether you're
a conscious capitalist or
you're a high tech engineer,
is your ability to
be in the present.
>> This book is not
about getting rich quick.
You basically spell
out four components
of conscious choices.
What are they?
>> Well, the "get rich
quick" mentality reflects
the traditional
thinking about money,
which also states that values
play no role whatsoever
in your financial choices.
Now, I think this is definitely
an error because values
shape your choices.
And your choices write
the story of your life
and your financial life.
So values can help you make
good financial decisions
because values
activate the heart.
You also want to honor sound
financial principles that
activates the mind.
And when the heart
and the head are
going in the same direction,
that is a powerful thing
because it activates choice.
When your head
and your heart are
going in the same direction,
your emotions are steady.
You're not going to make silly
mistakes, emotional mistakes.
Your head is clear.
And your course is set.
And in difficult
financial times,
it's better not to
be jumping around
to all these
different strategies,
but to have thought
about it and to have
decided what your
course of action
is going to be financially.
>> I think that really sums up
the entire core of your book.
>> It's all about making more
and more conscious choices.
And when you make those
choices consciously,
you benefit yourself,
you benefit your money,
you benefit other people,
and you benefit the planet
at large.
[ORCHESTRAL SOUND]